# tech-in-the-news
A collection of news articles about technology and its impact on society.

* [Sony is buying Bungie, the developer of Destiny and original creator of Halo](https://www.theverge.com/22910846/sony-bungie-acquisition-playstation-destiny-halo)

  This article is about the recent acquisition of games developer Bungie by Sony Interactive Entertainment for 3.6 billion dollars. This seems problematic for the playerbase of Bungie's current game "Destiny 2" because Sony owning Bungie may make Destiny 2 a PlayStation exclusive game. However, Bungie says that they have an agreement to remain independent and that the game will remain multi-platform and crossplay and will not feature PlayStation exclusive content, something that has existed in Destiny 2 before. This is similar to Microsoft's acquisition of Activision Blizzard, a sign of console companies buying developers around them to support their respective platforms.

* [Why SNK shifted to Unreal Engine for its latest fighting games](https://www.unrealengine.com/en-US/developer-interviews/why-snk-shifted-to-unreal-engine-for-its-latest-fighting-games)

  SNK decided to use the unreal engine for their latest game, The King of Fighters XV, which helped the development and quality of the final product. The unreal engine provided benefits to development such as easier time porting and enhanced shader capabilities. SNK used unreal engine for their previous title Samurai Shodown, which was a success and they are developing a future game with unreal engine. The King of Fighters XIV did not use unreal engine, but SNK was experimenting with unreal engine during that game's development, so the transition was easy.

* [Tesla wants its cars to be Steam compatible](https://www.pcgamer.com/tesla-wants-its-cars-to-be-steam-compatible/)

  In a tweet, Elon Musk reveals that Tesla is working towards making their cars Steam compatible. New Tesla models currently have an AMD GPU that is able to run demanding games on the dashboard. The dashboard makes use of a Linux operating system, which Steam currently is optimizing for things like the Steam Deck. The only confirmation of this happening is Elon Musk’s tweet. Also Tesla is currently being investigated by National Highway Traffic Safety Administration for some games being playable while driving, which has been disabled since last December.

* [Bungie slams YouTube for DMCA 'security loophole' and lousy customer service](https://www.pcgamer.com/bungie-slams-youtube-for-dmca-security-loophole-and-lousy-customer-service/)

  A few weeks ago Bungie, the developer of Destiny 2, saw content on YouTube related to Destiny receiving DMCA takedowns from a bad actor abusing the copyright system on YouTube. Bungie is criticizing YouTube for giving an unauthorized individual access to copyright protections and is taking legal action against the bad actors. YouTube likes to take a “hands off” approach to DMCA claims in favor for more automation due to the number of videos posted in the platform everyday. However, this approach allowed a malicious third party to abuse the system, harming the reneve of legitimate content creators and even striking down videos on Bungie’s own channel. This is a good example of the current copyright issues that come with internet content. Companies have every right to protect their properties, however the systems in place are easily abused and can harm people and now even the legitimate rights holders of intellectual property.
  
* [Valve says sanctions are blocking payments to Steam game devs in Ukraine, Russia](https://www-polygon-com.cdn.ampproject.org/v/s/www.polygon.com/platform/amp/23003359/valve-steam-ukraine-russia-developers-bank-regulations-payment?amp_gsa=1&amp_js_v=a9&usqp=mq331AQIKAGwASCAAgM%3D#amp_tf=From%20%251%24s&aoh=16487097701935&csi=1&referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com&ampshare=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.polygon.com%2F23003359%2Fvalve-steam-ukraine-russia-developers-bank-regulations-payment)

  Due to the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine, game developers in these regions are unable to receive income from Steam sales because the bank that delivers funds is blocked by economic sanctions. These developers have asked Valve when they can find a way to get their money but Valve does not know when they will be able to deliver the funds. This is one of many economic hardships brought about by the war in Ukraine. These developers depend on that income for their livelihood, so they must be struggling to make ends meet. It is reassuring that a solution may present itself to give the developers their money, but it is far away and is guaranteed.
  
* [Quantum computers are many years away from cracking crypto: MIT Tech Review](https://cointelegraph.com/news/quantum-computers-are-years-away-from-cracking-crypto-mit-tech-review)

  Current crypto currencies and blockchain technology is not possible to hack with current computing power; however, when quantum computers are developed this could be a problem. The processing power of a quantum computer would invalidate all modern cryptography, thus making the large quantity of money on the blockchain unsafe when that day comes. Many scientists are working on quantum-proof cryptography that would allow the blockchain to not be hacked wide open. Quantum computing would be a massive technological achievement that could improve our society, but it can also cause problems. A great leap in technology is always inevitable, so we must prepare for the day quantum computing is a reality or any other significant technological leap is achieved for the possible negative consequences it could have on society.
  
* [Netflix is finally going after password sharing. Here's how it's likely to work](https://www-cnbc-com.cdn.ampproject.org/v/s/www.cnbc.com/amp/2022/04/23/how-netflixs-password-sharing-crackdown-is-likely-to-work.html?amp_gsa=1&amp_js_v=a9&usqp=mq331AQIKAGwASCAAgM%3D#amp_tf=From%20%251%24s&aoh=16508379028446&csi=0&referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com&ampshare=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cnbc.com%2F2022%2F04%2F23%2Fhow-netflixs-password-sharing-crackdown-is-likely-to-work.html)

  Netflix is currently developing a system to stop password sharing on their service. Password sharing is the act of giving someone else access to your streaming service account, which allows groups of people to avoid paying for individual accounts and instead share one. This practice reduces the number of people that buy a subscription, which hurts profits. Netflix is seeing a tough time for business ight now and this crackdown is an attempt to increase profits. The method of cracking down on sharing involves tracking the ip of the main account and requiring additional fees for people sharing. The issue here is that this system can hurt people trying to use it normally. You could be locked out of your account if you decide to go vacation just because the ip doe not check out. Or one might find this crackdown to be anti-consumer, like if you have a family that shares an account and just because one member does not live is the same home, they are locked out of the account. A system like this will probably just hurt the company more than it will generate revenue.

* [2 months in, Elden Ring's PC performance issues are a real drag](https://www.pcgamer.com/2-months-in-elden-rings-pc-performance-issues-are-a-real-drag/)

  The video game Elden Ring has been a massive hit for gaming, with many players enjoying the game. However, the PC port of the game launched with performance issues, making that version of lower quality as a product than other versions of the game. It has been two months since the game was released and despite many patches addressing gameplay, the issues on PC performance have not been solved. The game can still be enjoyed and played on PC, it is disappointing that it is not as omtomozed as it should be. This is a common problem with games and software in general, where a product is released that is not fully functional and may or may not be patched at a later time. Elden Ring is just a game so having performance issues is not going to hurt anyone but it is bad that companies can sell an unfinished product without issue. If this was in the context of some sensitive software for the government or military, then people's lives could be affected by bugs that could have been solved if the programmers had just done their job.
  
* [A top lithium expert agrees with Elon Musk that there’s not enough of the crucial metal to meet booming demand](https://fortune.com/2022/04/22/lithium-expert-says-supply-is-not-enough-to-keep-up-with-demand/)

  Lithium is an important component of electric cars and due to an increase in demand for electric cars, the demand for lithium has also increased. There are no issues with lithium supply at the moment, but companies are worried that lithium may have shortage issues in the future, similar to the current shortage of semiconductor materials. A lithium shortage might happen because mining lithium is a difficult process and the demand is only increasing. An expert made this claim agreeing with Elon Musk’s assessment of the situation. These issues with the supply chain for electric vehicles show that they are not a guaranteed way to curb climate change. Although the cars themselves do not produce harmful emissions, the process to make them still can. Getting raw materials like lithium can impact the environment poorly and these materials being used up quickly will hurt the world in the long term.


